---
title: "Optimization of ionic concentrations in engineered water injection in carbonate reservoir through ANN and FGA"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/2021-02-OGST
excerpt: 'In this paper, we integrates Artificial Neural Networks (ANNs) and Fast Genetic Algorithm (FGA) for optimizing ionic concentrations in Engineered Water Injection (EWI) in carbonate reservoirs. The ANN effectively predicts wettability alterations, while FGA maximizes Net Present Value (NPV), increasing oil recovery by 8.7% and reducing water production by 52% over conventional methods.'
date: 2021-02-3
venue: 'Oil & Gas Science and Technology–Revue d’IFP Energies nouvelles'
slidesurl: #
paperurl: /files/Reginato_OGST_2021.pdf
citation: #
---

This paper presents an innovative approach combining Artificial Neural Networks (ANNs) and Fast Genetic Algorithm (FGA) to optimize ionic concentrations for Engineered Water Injection (EWI) in carbonate reservoirs, aiming to enhance oil recovery and economic returns. The study leverages ANN’s predictive capability to model wettability alterations based on ionic combinations and integrates it with FGA to optimize Net Present Value (NPV). The methodology involved creating a database of synthetic reservoir models and conducting simulations with varied ionic concentrations to train an ANN. Using a Neural Net Fitting (NNF) approach with Bayesian Regularization, the ANN achieved high accuracy in predicting relative permeability changes, crucial for simulating wettability shifts. Coupled with FGA, the ANN optimized the ionic composition for EWI, considering economic parameters and production constraints. Key innovations include replacing computationally intensive geochemical simulations with ANN-driven predictions, reducing simulation time by 90%, and introducing optimized EWI strategies tailored to carbonate reservoirs. The results demonstrated an 8.7% increase in oil recovery and a 52% reduction in water production compared to conventional methods. Additionally, optimized EWI increased profitability by $49.62 million under certain cost scenarios, validating its economic and operational viability. This study establishes the potential of ANN-FGA integration as a robust tool for optimizing advanced recovery methods, offering a scalable and efficient solution for improving reservoir performance and decision-making in petroleum engineering.